Improve service documentation (#129)
eclipse-velocitas/velocitas-docs: content/en/docs/tutorials/grpc_service_generation/create_client.md

  Learn how to create a client for a service definition.
---

# Introduction

This example assumes that you have used the [Velocitas App C++ Template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template) to create a new repository and now want to modify it to be a grpc service client.
The example files can also be found in the [Github repository](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/velocitas-docs/examples/grpc_client).

# Velocitas components

Depending on how you intend to deploy the Application and Databroker the number of Velocitas components required varies.
Below is the minimum set needed in `.velocitas.json` if deploying Databroker on localhost.

```json
    "components": [
        "devcontainer-setup",
        "grpc-interface-support",
        "sdk-installer",
        "build-system"
    ],
```

## App configuration

> In the `AppManifest.json` file you need to specify which interfaces your App wants to use or provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `AppManifest.json` file you need to specify which interfaces your App wants to use.
```

In this case it declares that it wants to use `Move` and `CurrentPosition` from the Seats service defined in `seats.proto`.

```json
{
    "manifestVersion": "v3",
    "name": "SampleApp",
    "interfaces": [
        {
            "type": "grpc-interface",
            "config": {
                "src": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-kuksa/kuksa-incubation/0.4.0/seat_service/proto/sdv/edge/comfort/seats/v1/seats.proto",
                "required": {
                    "methods": [
                        "Move", "CurrentPosition"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## File Generation

> When rebuilding the devcontainer with the configuration no new files will appear in your repository,
> but the SDK has been updated in the background so you can use it in the file containing `main()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rebuilding the devcontainer with the configuration no new files will appear in your repository, but the SDK has been updated in the background so you can use it in the file containing `main()`.
```

You can also regenerate the SDK with the `(Re-)generate gRPC SDKs` task.

## Launcher.cpp

You need to have a file that implements the client behavior.

> In this example we modify the file `Launcher.cpp` that already exist in the [template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template).
> The logic of the example client is simple. It tries to set the target position for the seat and if it
> succeeds it tries to read current position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we modify the file `Launcher.cpp` that already exists in the [template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template).
The logic of the example client is simple. It tries to set the target position for the seat and if it succeeds it tries to read current position.
```

  Learn how to create a client for a service definition.
---

# Introduction

This example assumes that you have used the [Velocitas App C++ Template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template) to create a new repository and now want to modify it to be a grpc service client.
The example files can also be found in the [Github repository](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/velocitas-docs/examples/grpc_client).

# Velocitas components

> Dependning on how you intend to deploy the Application and Databroker the number of Velocitas components required varies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on how you intend to deploy the Application and Databroker the number of Velocitas components required varies.
```

        "sdk-installer",
        "build-system"
    ],
```

## App configuration

In the `AppManifest.json` file you need to specify which interfaces your App wants to use or provide.
In this case it declares that it wants to use `Move` and `CurrentPosition` from the Seats service defined in `seats.proto`.

```json
{
    "manifestVersion": "v3",
    "name": "SampleApp",
    "interfaces": [
        {
            "type": "grpc-interface",
            "config": {
                "src": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-kuksa/kuksa-incubation/0.4.0/seat_service/proto/sdv/edge/comfort/seats/v1/seats.proto",
                "required": {
                    "methods": [
                        "Move", "CurrentPosition"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## File Generation

When rebuilding the devcontainer with the configuration no new files will appear in your repository,
but the SDK has been updated in the background so you can use it in the file containing `main()`.
You can also regenerate the SDK with the `(Re-)generate gRPC SDKs` task.

## Launcher.cpp

You need to have a file that implements the client behavior,

> in this example we modify the file `Launcher.cpp` that already exist in the [template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to have a file that implements the client behavior.
In this example we modify the file `Launcher.cpp` that already exist in the [template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template).
```

---

# Introduction

This example is based on that you have used the [Velocitas App C++ Template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template) to create a new repository,

> and now you want to modify it to act as a client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example assumes that you have used the [Velocitas App C++ Template](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template) to create a new repository and now want to modify it to be a grpc service client.
```

The example files can also be found in the [Github repository](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/velocitas-docs/examples/grpc_client).

# Velocitas components

Dependning on how you intend to deploy the Application and Databroker the number of Velocitas components required varies.
Below is the minimum set needed in `.velocitas.json` if deploying Databroker on localhost.

```json
    "components": [
        "devcontainer-setup",
        "grpc-interface-support",
        "sdk-installer",
        "build-system"
    ],
```

## App configuration

> In the `AppManifest.json` file you need to specify which interfaces your App want to use or provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `AppManifest.json` file you need to specify which interfaces your App wants to use or provide.
```

> In this case it declares that it want to use `Move` and `CurrentPosition` from the Seats service defined in `seats.proto`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case it declares that it wants to use `Move` and `CurrentPosition` from the Seats service defined in `seats.proto`.
```

```json
{
    "manifestVersion": "v3",
    "name": "SampleApp",
    "interfaces": [
        {
            "type": "grpc-interface",
            "config": {
                "src": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-kuksa/kuksa-incubation/0.4.0/seat_service/proto/sdv/edge/comfort/seats/v1/seats.proto",
                "required": {
                    "methods": [
                        "Move", "CurrentPosition"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## File Generation

When rebuilding the devcontainer with the configuration no new files will appear in your repository,

> but the SDK has been updated in the background so you can use it in the file containing `main()`.

Reviewer: One could also use the task to generate the grpc sdks

## Launcher.cpp

You need to add a file that implement the client behavior, in this example called `Launcher.cpp`. 

> You need to add `Launcher.cpp` to `src/CMakeLists.txt`.

Reviewer: In the current template we already have the Launcher.cpp available

The logic of the example client is simple. It tries to set the target position for the seat and if it
succeeds it tries to read current position.

``` cpp

> include <sdk/middleware/Middleware.h>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <sdk/middleware/Middleware.h>
```

        request.set_row(1);
        request.set_index(1);

        auto status_curr_pos = serviceClient->CurrentPosition(&context, request, &response);
        std::cout << "gRPC Server returned code: " << status_curr_pos.error_code() << std::endl;
        std::cout << "gRPC error message: " << status_curr_pos.error_message().c_str() << std::endl;
        if (status_curr_pos.ok())
            std::cout << "current Position:" << response.seat().position().base() << std::endl;
        return 0;
    }
}
```

## Building and Running

To (re-)build the App after changing the code you can use the [build script](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template/blob/main/build.sh).

> As preparation for running you must also set an environment variables to define the address/port of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As preparation for running the client you must also set an environment variable to define the address/port of the server.
```

Reviewer: please also add a note that you have to start the client in the same terminal, otherwise the env gets lost

```bash
./build.sh
export SDV_SEATS_ADDRESS=grpc://127.0.0.1:5555
```

> If Databroker and the Server is running and has a current value for the wanted signal, then everthing shall work when the client is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Databroker and the Server are running and have a valid value for the wanted signal, everything should work when the client is started.
```

        request.set_row(1);
        request.set_index(1);

        auto status_curr_pos = serviceClient->CurrentPosition(&context, request, &response);
        std::cout << "gRPC Server returned code: " << status_curr_pos.error_code() << std::endl;
        std::cout << "gRPC error message: " << status_curr_pos.error_message().c_str() << std::endl;

>         if (status.error_code() == ::grpc::StatusCode::OK)

Reviewer: I think there is something simpler like
```suggestion
        if (status.ok())
```

            std::cout << "current Position:" << response.seat().position().base() << std::endl;
        return 0;
    }
}
```

## Building and Running

To (re-)build the App after changing the code you can use the [build script](https://github.com/eclipse-velocitas/vehicle-app-cpp-template/blob/main/build.sh).
As preparation for running you must also set two environment variables to indicate where the address/port of the

> server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As preparation for running you must also set two environment variables to define the address/port of the server.
```
